recently massive leaks about Google
search algorithm described as one of the
biggest stories in the history of
[Music]
SEO the secrets behind a B2B SEO
strategy that generates leads and
revenue so this episode is taken from my
recent interview with Mark Evans we dive
into the recent Google leak we talk
about the impact AI is going to have on
SEO and we dive into strategies we use
it breaking B2B for clients to make sure
that SEO is a solid driver of qualified
leads it builds mind share brand
visibility traffic and puts cash in the
bank to your B2B organization with a
step by step that you can use from today
to make sure your B2B SEO campaign is a
success oh and if you haven't yet joined
thousands of Legends enjoying my weekday
new newsletter for unusual SEO and B2B
marketing tips and the latest podcast
episode updates head over to breaking
bb.com and hit that newsletter tab now
let's get stuck into the episode there
were recently massive leaks about Google
search algorithm described as one of the
biggest stories in the history of SEO
and Google search maybe some hibery
there the links contradict many public
statements made by Google over the years
including denials about click Centric
user
signals big juicy question here what are
your thoughts about these leaks and how
should marketers adapt their strategies
in
response it was a funny one for me
because I can remember W waking up
whenever it was a couple weeks back like
rubbing the sleeper dust out my eye and
then seeing a post from ran fishkin
thinking what the heck is going on as
he'd like the night before or a couple
days before basically got Insider
information about this leak and then
been speaking to an exg googler about it
and then another guy called Mike he's
like super hot on Tech SEO I thought it
was surprising I think a lot of what's
come of it is almost Common Sense SEO
but there were some interesting elements
one specifically from the leak is that
Google have said when even when asked on
forums like Twitter and stuff like that
that links aren't that important but
then in that leak it pretty much says
that links are important but they've got
to be relevant to your Niche so when
you're acquiring back links they've got
to be super relevant to your industry or
your sector and then contextual so
you're not just getting links from
random sites and then hoping that's
going to juice up and rank ramp some
Authority and another part of it is
they're saying that Brand's super
important I think most B2B companies
knew this stuff already then the point
you alluded to around click data I think
that's still a bit of a tricky one to
Define in terms of kind of more
click-throughs to your
naturally if you're looking to rank a
site in organic search you're aiming to
get the click through realistically
you've got to be in the top through
organic results or or similar to to gain
that click through although that is
affected by AI overviews which we can of
course dive into in a bit so those those
were some of the core things there's
lots of other bits and pieces but it was
surprising but I think it was also
reassuring for a lot of folks that have
been doing SEO for a little while to see
that some of these things are actually
ringing true a lot of the stuff that
Google of PRS even when directly asked
had brushed off just funny that a lot of
these things that people in the weeds
for SEO thought were true around links
and stuff like that and Googling up to
now i' been denying it if we take a step
back and look at the leaks and how much
they matter and how they change the SEO
landscape is this a geeky
SEO story or are there impacts for
marketers and content
marketers do they need to change the way
that they do marketing create content or
is it business as usual and what the
leaks highlight is that some of the
fundamentals that we thought were
important are important such as brand if
I'm a
marketer what should I do should I dive
into the leaks and figure out how to
change my Rules of Engagement or is it
business as usual
if I was a B2B marketer I wouldn't take
tons of time for the leaks first and
foremost because there's so much you can
disect and I think a lot of it unless
you are a super well-versed SEO a lot of
it might even go over your head because
some of it goes over mine and the other
thing is like you say some of it's
fundamental so I'd more encourage you to
understand the foundations of SEO I
would also encourage you to understand
what the AI overviews upda in tails and
excuse me jumping into kind of excusing
the leak and going more into overviews
but I think there's so there's so many
issues like B2B marketers and organic
search SEO in general get get stuck at
and it's often not their fault taking a
bit of a tangent the fundamentals the
main reason why most B2B companies will
get their marketing team to run SEO is
because they want to acquire customers
so they want to acquire pipeline I
qualified demos qualified leads or sales
calls depending on whatever your motion
is whether you're SAS or or service
based
and a lot of companies just get SEO
completely wrong and that is a big chunk
of what partly this leak and partly AI
overviews is blowing out the water
because AI overviews depending on how
much you know about it is going to wipe
out a lot of top funnel content and by
top funnel content super simple if we
take at the B2B space like how is
questions or what is questions or those
kind of simple searches like what is web
design how to build a website what is
SAS just those simple things that could
be answered by a robot answered by AI
anything like that you'll get an instant
rather than going having to tro through
the traditional organic results or blog
posts or Pages you get an instant AI
overview that will say this is what it
is this is what what's entailed with it
and then you have a couple supporting
links so it just saves everyone time so
if you're doing that as your SEO and
perhaps your I don't know the SE Suite
or the EXA team has said I can see that
we're struggling organic search like
we're not getting many leads or we're
not getting many demo requests from it
can you go ahead and kind of do us some
SEO work and then the poor marketer
probably has got about 102 other tasks
to do they're probably thinking okay
I'll do a little bit of K research I'll
see what's good got a bit of traffic
I'll quickly run a blog post through
chat GPT I'll fire up that article and
then I'll forget about it and I'll do my
99 other tasks on my checklist they
publish it it might get a bit of traffic
a few months later the whoever T them
with a job one of the exact team says
how are we doing on SEO great I I
published this article it got some
traffic did any leads come off the back
of it no you didn't ask me to get any
leads you just said do a bit of SEO I
did a bit of SEO and I think that's
where it goes wrong Mark it's often seen
like organic search like this is
fundamental organic search in in general
is often a barrel scraping marketing
activity so usually when it comes to SEO
just like a lot of other marketing
channels will claim I'm sure you've
usually got things like paid ads be at
LinkedIn ads Google search review sites
at the top of the food chain you might
have like events then you might have
underneath sponsorships influencer
marketing then you've probably got up
there outbound sales teams that kind of
stuff then you've probably got
Partnerships and right at the bottom of
the budget or resource you've got SEO
right so often it gets given like the Li
amount of resource or cash flow that's
why marketers get it wrong so my point
is top of the funnel SEO unless done
super specific is is more and more going
to be a waste of time we want to focus
on of the funnel which I'm happy to dive
in and explain when I look at Google
leaks
versus Ai overviews and so people are
clear what Google has introduced is that
when you do a search like what is web
design instead of getting the listicle
Articles or that generic content that
usually see Google will have ai
generated content and there was a story
on the BBC website that claimed that the
introduction of a AI overviews the
internet will never be the same what
they highlighted was websites that had
seen their traffic like
dramatically evaporate 90 99% where to
the point where these companies actually
had to cease operations because what
they were doing didn't make sense
anymore because they'd depended so
heavily on search for traffic that this
algorithm change destroyed their
businesses and as a marketer I I look at
that I look at creating this basic top
of the final content and all that stuff
really doesn't matter anymore and then
you look at people who are starting to
use generative AI chat gbt perplexity
Claud to answer those basic questions is
completely changing
I guess from an SEO and content
marketing
perspective what does this mean for
marketers and content marketers so if
top of the funnel content is I'm going
to use a dramatic word here irrelevant
or not as important then what kind of
content should they be creating that is
going to rank high and as you mentioned
generate
leads that's the question right and in
my opinion it comes down to what
whoever's doing the SEO whoever's doing
the content marketing for your business
should have been doing already really
and that is understanding what high
intent prospects that need your offer
solution service now or that are
comparing you to a common competitor in
the sector What specifically do they
search for on Google when they're ready
to have a sales conversation around the
auor or checking you off against a
common competitor that is some of the
quickest wins that you can get when it
comes to SU o both for B2B SAS or
service based organizations so one of
the best routes to do that is like
getting super straightforward what I did
for my company breaking B2B when we
started earlier this year and what I
advise any other similar business to do
is just fire up a Google sheet quite
literally list out what are the main
offers that we want to be selling what
are our kind of core offers or high
ticket offerings whether that's Tech
based whether that's service BAS
whatever secondly who are the main
audiences we want to serve what are the
main industries that we've historically
sold well into what are those industries
that have the expensive problem we fix
appreciate the impact of that problem
most importantly actually have cash to
invest in the offer because you'd want
to target folks that aren't going to be
able to afford a solution that's one of
the first things so I'd list out on all
our main offers and all the main
industries we want to be
serving secondly I would make a list
there of all our main I don't know top
10 or so competitors and if you're in
Tech then you can go onto a site like G2
or cap Terra whatever paid review sites
relevant to you but you'll probably know
a lot of these already right so if
you're in the for example if you're in
the calendar booking space it might be
calendar chili Piper Revenue hero hub
spot meetings all The Usual Suspects you
want to do that then the last exercise I
probably encourage you to do when you're
on that Google sheet exercise is to also
list out what what I call jobs to be
done of your target prospects and that
is basically what is the problem that
your target clients face when they get
to that real struggling moment when
they're trying to do something in house
or internally or they're trying to do a
solution themselves where they realize
this isn't helping me out the progress I
need to make I need to look up another
solution to get this job done in a
better way and to give you a tangible
example what a job to be done from an
SEO perspective might be so let's say
perhaps you run an outbound sales team
and perhaps they're doing not many are
probably doing this anymore but perhaps
your sales folks are doing manual
dialing on their handset on their cell
phones they're thinking we're making
dials but it's taking us like I don't
know10 per hour there must be a better
way but I wish there was a way I could
connect to cell phones of decision
makers quicker and they might search
something like I don't know how to make
faster dials to decision makers with my
cell phone that would be the struggling
moment and in your article that we can
talk about in a sec you might introduce
the fact there's something called a
parallel dialer and SDR teams can use
this to to make 100 dials in an hour
rather than making 20 manual ones with a
cell phone and all the advantages as
some Co jobs to be done understanding
what folks struggle with when they might
need your offer and then shining a light
on this new way of getting the job done
so that's what I'd encourage you to
do that's something that we did when I
fired at my site breaking bb.com I four
or so months back we did the same in our
case we listed out our main offers B2B
SEO B2B SEO for SAS all the main niches
and then once you've listed out all
those main offers plus the niches you
want to serve within them plus your
competitors plus a list of the jobs
we've done you want to find relevant
keywords for each one so perhaps stuff
that's got a little bit of search volume
one mistake I see a lot is folks want to
go for keywords with super high traffic
and the truth is that's not always the
best way so those classic top of the
ones we talked about earlier Mark how to
do X how to do y best ways to do Zed
they might have a lot of traffic but
they're probably not going to drive
leads because someone's probably just
going to search it even if there isn't
an AI overview instant answer they might
click on your blog post get the answer
and then jump off whereas we want to go
for some high intent for someone that
actually searching to to speak to sales
not just searching to get a quick bit of
Intel so those key wordss that you're
making your Google sheet you can run
them through a tool like HRS and then
you can see which ones actually have a
little bit of search volume which are
relevant maybe your off a press industry
to give a bit of context what that look
like might be the scheduling tool for
sales teams or calendar scheduling for
HR or whatever or another one might be
best calendar scheduling tool and
another might be if we're doing jobs to
be done I don't know how to book
meetings with your sales prospects fast
might be a jobs to be a landbased
specific search so let's pretend we've
done all that let's pretend we've run it
through the the keyword tracking tool
HFS and then got some kind of Target
prospects and I really encourage
enourage you to exhaust the bottom of
the funnel so many companies do it a
little bit of this like a little bit of
Industry Plus Solution a little bit of
jobs to be done a little bit of
Alternatives and then once you've done
that the next stage really is when
you've got a list of your focus kind of
bottom of the funnel and middle funnel
keywords is to understand the intent so
this is where again a lot of folks get
it wrong simplest way to do that is to
literally type in the keyword in in
Google you might type in best calendar
scheduling tool or calendar scheduling
tool for sales themes or if you're doing
alternative keywords which is super good
for SAS if we keep it on the calendar
scheduling tool theme you might type in
um kendly Alternatives or chili Piper
Alternatives and to assess the intent of
a page all you do is look at the top
three or four organic results click on
them and see what type of page loads
that's called page intent and the page
intent could be something like if you're
looking for an alternative keyword cly
Alternatives it's probably going to fire
up an article which would be a alytical
format and that's usually something like
top 10 candy Alternatives consider in
2024 and traditionally the whoever's
written the article will position their
offer as number one then have nine other
competitors underneath them but a lot of
folks get that type of page wrong for
example as they'll just use point one to
talk about how great they are when what
I recommend you do is by all means Put
Your solution as number one but leverage
customer research so instead of just
saying we're great we've got these
features Whatever by all means position
yourself in number one but say this is
how we're differentiated in the market
this is our unique problem we fix this
is the impact of not fixing it and
here's why might consider our solution
but also you might have like a graphic
like a table and a chart that says look
this is our most common competitor this
is what they have but this is actually
what some of the check marks for us
here's a few screenshots of the offer
and action here's even a live demo so
you can play around and then a cool to
action I don't know request a free trial
or get a 30-day trial or whatever is
relevant for your offer and maybe even
some social proof like a video review
from a client and the other example I
usually give is once you've assessed
that intent so it could be alytical like
I just described or maybe the the
keyword you're going for is like best
calendar booking software that might be
a solution type page which is a bit
different which you can dive into but
the main thing you want to consider here
is build out these pages but look to
completely blow out the water whatever
is ranking number one number two at the
moment in organic search and when I say
blow out the water if you going for an
alternativ based keyword like the cly
Alternatives or chili Piper
Alternatives they do they might do top
10 Alternatives I'd go for top 20 right
I would do something that's radically
different that's just my style right I
don't want any chance of being beaten
anytime soon so I just want to do
something that's so more informative so
much more helpful and so much more
useful and I want to whoever's building
out that page page whether it's myself
or one of my team like one of Google's
Google's Frameworks is called eat
experience expertise Authority trust so
they want we want to be sure that
whoever is putting together this content
is kind of almost a subject matter
expert in the field so they can really
write it from a level that's not just a
lot of words but when a prospect lands
on that page they're actually going to
resonate with it and they're actually
going to think this person knows their
stuff they they know my world they know
my problems they know my goals and thus
it's going to be more likely to convert
so I'll take a breath there as I know
ramm a lot of information down your
throat that's a lot of information in a
short period of time I would encourage
people to hit the rewind button a few
times to soak in the approach that you
need to take to create content that is
going to rank with the new the new
Google World a little bit of a tangent
here I'm glad you mentioned job the jobs
BM framework because a lot of marketers
a lot of entrepreneurs lean into buyer
personas and they come up with these
semif fictional representations of what
a prospect looks like including things
like their Hobbies their
demographics unless you do it right
unless you do buyer personas in the
right way and anybody's interested check
out what the buyer Persona Institute
Advocates then they're
useless templates they really don't help
you much I've leaned more more into the
jobs be done template because it gives
you a picture of the everyday world for
your prospects there are pains their
problems the tools that they use the
approaches that they take to get jobs
done and every piece of software that we
sell is actually being hired to do a job
we want to know as marketers and
entrepreneurs the nitty-gritty
day-to-day activities that someone takes
and how our software our product can
make those activities easier more
efficient more successful so I'm I'm
glad that you mentioned that now getting
back to our regular programming and
talking about SEO there's obviously a
lot of talk right
now uh when you people look at the
answer does SEO still matter given the
rise of generative AI tools like chat
gbt so some people suggest that 50 60
70% of their search activity is actually
done using of AI tools they've in many
respects they've abandoned Google
because they don't want to scroll
through all the results they don't want
to pick and choose what could be
relevant they just want the answers to
appear and we live in an instant
gratification show me world where people
are multitasking and frankly a lot of
people are lazy and they don't want to
work they want they don't want to read
long form articles they just want the
information given to them
so big a big question here does SEO is
it still matter is it still relevant are
people overhyping the impact of
generative Ai and tools like chbt on
SEO what are your thoughts as an SEO
person I suspect I know the answer but
what are your thoughts in terms of the
future of SEO I'm probably a little
different to most seos because I see SEO
is a channel a lot of what I talk about
is it's using SEO as a revenue Channel
but when I say that of course you've got
to get the qualified Leed first you've
got to get the demo or the trial or the
sales call that then can
eventually convert into to One deals and
one cash in the bank for your business
now seo's a channel just like Co calling
is a channel or LinkedIn ads as a
Channel or email marketing a Channel or
influencer marketing or partnership
plays or whatever AI has affected all
these channels right it's there's parts
that you can do that can speed up
processes that can help you gather Intel
and similar if I take the focus back to
SEO is AI is chat GPT killing off SEO
the truth is SEO there's a few ways I
look at it SEO is best placed like I
talked about earlier is a demand capture
channel so understanding exactly what
your idol clients your dream clients in
the nichu serve are searching for when
they need your offer now or they're
shipping you off against competitors or
they are using a crisp and specific job
you help get done to capture that
traffic show a Best in Class page that
shows their world their problems their
goals and motivations build enough trust
with social proof and then drive them to
take that relevant action now let's have
a think about it if we're leaning on AI
to produce all that content for
us do we really think that's going to
convert especially as we move up to high
average contract value offers even if
you did rank a page using AI copy if
someone lands on one of your pages and
be it a solution page indust landing
page or even a comparison page or
something similar and it comes up with
words like 20 actual revenues with our
Allin one all singing Wizardry dancing
platform today we're going to
supercharge your SAS with everything you
need to know with our 360 Degrees CRM
knowhow if I landed on that page I'd
probably bounce within two to three
seconds thinking I can tell this written
this is written by a robot it's just
going to annoy me and I think most
prospects are probably going to be
similar to me not everyone that's for
sure but I think something that's often
overlooked in AI in sorry in SEO
something that's often overlooked in SEO
is yes you've got to do the the
technical points yes you've got to get
the content on point yes you've got to
understand what folks are searching for
and then match that intent but also what
we talked about earlier with jobs to be
done in customer research is you've got
to understand who the stream client is
and if your content doesn't resonate and
clearly show you understand their world
their problems their struggling moments
their aspirations their goals their
motivators what's annoying them their
common questions they common objections
by leveraging this info that you can
grab from sales calls customer success
prospecting calls and more so important
for SEO because you can rank a page but
if that page doesn't resonate with that
Target prospect it's almost useless
because they're going to land on the
page read a bit of the copy and then
think this is a waste of time I'm going
to head to the next result want turn say
a little bit to content marketing and as
a longtime content creator newspaper
journalist B2B marketer content is at
the heart and soul of how I like to go
to market with clients but there is a
raging debate between quality content
and quantity and you hear read a lot on
LinkedIn about content needs to be value
add insightful
informative Meanwhile we're seeing a
tsunami of content generated
by generative AI generic vanilla
robotic nondescript uncreative
uninspiring but a lot of companies are
leaning into it because you can create
content at scale really easily and as
you mentioned earlier a lot of marketers
have a hundred things to do including
creating content so they're taking
shortcuts and they're they see
generative AI as
a Content creation
replacement when it is in fact more of
an idation tool brainstorming tool a way
to structure content and plan
content I think the question that I
wonder about or I ask as far as the
future of content is concerned is if
we're going to focus on creating high
quality content then how do we make make
it stand out from the crowd when there's
just so much happening the marketplace
is so noisy you and I are active on
LinkedIn and you look at the news feed
and there's just so much
content so whether it's SEO or other
approaches if you create a great piece
of quality content whether it's top of
the funnel or middle of the funnel how
do you get people to read it to make
people aware that it exists do you have
any thoughts in terms of how you're the
advice that you're giving to your
clients when it comes to this content
conundrum is the question if I can talk
about LinkedIn but if we keep it I
suppose more from an SEO perspective in
terms of content marketing is it more
how does how do you get the content to
rank or you talking more how do you get
the content to actually resonate with
Target prospects
and take guide them to take a desired
action or what's the I think it's lots
of things it's LinkedIn as a way to
reach a global audience it's SEO to tap
into the power of search but it could be
things like tapping communities like
Reddit or slack or Facebook groups or
newsletters the question that I'm asking
is if I'm a content creator and I've
leaned heavily on SEO for a long time
keyword research click intent all that
good technical stuff now I need to take
a different approach holistically
what should I do how do I get people to
read my great content given there's just
so much
competition from a high level
perspective and this could be this could
be applicable to SEO content if you
follow the best practices we talked
about and it can be applicable to
LinkedIn I think the word resonate still
stands important still stands clutch
here because if you can understand I
think a lot of folks in general and this
again could apply to a lot of R
Industries and BSB just too afraid to
Niche down so they're trying to speak to
too many people at once rather than
understanding a few main segments of an
audience a tight Niche a tight few
sectors Industries
whatever and really drilling down into
those because when you do that then it's
easier to understand who you're trying
to Market and sell to and then you can
actually it's a lot easier for you to if
your team's doing prospecting calls if
they're running sales calls or running
customer success calls or if you're the
founder selling then you're obviously
doing this all yourself it's a lot
easier to understand their world and
that's a fluffy term but that what I
mean by that is what are the problems
that they're raising what are kind of
the frustrations that cause them to
reach out to a company like yours what
the competi competitors they're seeing
in the market when they choose you if
they do sign like what are the the
reasons for choosing you opposed to
three or four other vendors what are the
common questions that you get from them
what the common objections when you know
a lot of this stuff you hear a lot of
patterns you hear a lot of things said
at the same time if you're a bit like me
bit of a nerd then every time I hear
this kind of stuff be a question
something I think oh that's a good one
I'll just grab my iPhone and Chuck on
the notes app and that fuels a lot of my
content for LinkedIn it fuels a lot of
the stuff when I look to perhaps improve
one of our own website Pages or client
pages and think oh we can add an element
here like we can add an FAQ section onto
this solution page because this is going
to address real prospects questions thus
making them more likely trust us and
convert or if it's a LinkedIn post it
might be I just spoke to a marketer a
B2B SAS company they were asking me like
why don't I just ramp up my ad spend on
Google instead of investing with SEO
that's probably on a lot of marketers
Minds now with kind of budget
constraints and a lot of that a lot of
their exact team saying let's just pump
more into ads and hope for more leads
and so if you can leverage that stuff
then it's more likely to ring a bell
with the audience that you're trying to
connect to serving them what similar
folks are asking you what you're talking
about the questions you're raising so
it's I suppose what I'm saying is a mix
of using Community this doesn't have to
be sales schols it could be in
communities like slack groups and stuff
like that could be from customer success
calls that kind of stuff but when you
have a tighter Niche a tight tighter
target market this kind of stuff becomes
a lot easier to build out content that's
actually going to hit home with the
folks you want to do business with h
let's wrap up our conversation with a
crystal ball question when this is the
part where is more of a guessing game
when you look at the content marketing
and SEO landscape over the next 6 to 12
months given how much change has
happened so far in 2024 any predictions
about what trends will dominate I
definitely think that certainly in B2B
and B2B Tech a lot of companies are
going to go hard on Smart Ones anyway
going to go hard on bottom of the funnel
organic search like we talked about
especially with spend locking up funding
being less available so therefore
companies have less cash to spend on ads
they might get their internal marketers
to understand bottom of the funnel SEO
and just really drill that home so they
can capture that demand and capture some
leads finally I think it was Lily Ray
who's one of the top voices in SEO was
posting about the Google recently they
pulled back the I overviews results
quite a bit so there was a certain
percentage that you you the chance that
you'd see an instant AI over result but
I think they've drilled it down to 2% or
so because it was giving so many INF
factual like incorrect answers so it
talk about like how to bake a cake and
then it would involve something like if
you want a really quick way of baking a
cake put some PVA glue in stick it
together nicely and what the hell right
just so many dodgy answers that's
probably where I sit going I
think invest in brand is quite General
because I think it's easy to say if
you're a well-funded large scale company
I think if you're a startup it's a lot
more difficult to allocate spend and
resource directly to Brand because
you're often under pressur to hit
targets pretty quickly so I think that's
a bit of a fluffy one to me to say so I
think it's more teams going back to the
fundamentals understanding a lot of the
stuff we talked about around what
prospects care about and then gearing a
strategy towards that and there we have
it I hope you found these B2B SEO tips
stories and ideas of use and if you want
to join thousands of B2B Legends
enjoying our weekday newsletter for
unusual B2B marketing SEO tips and
podcast updates head over to breaking
bb.com and hit that newsletter Tab and
with that I'll catch you on the next one
cheers
[Music]